It's a pleasure to welcome you to JW Broadcasting.
What can we look forward to in this month's program?
In the series, Iron Sharpen's Iron,
we'll join an experienced circuit overseer
for some field-tested suggestions
on how we can use questions to start
and continue good conversations in the ministry.
Day after day, our young people are tested
to compromise their integrity.
We'll meet Cory and Camera,
two young people who talk, frankly,
about the pressure they faced in high school to have sex.
How did they resist temptation and stand their ground?
Do you find the idea of conducting a Bible study
intimidating in a new dramatization?
Jade conducts her first Bible study
and learns what it takes to be an effective teacher.
This is the October 2022 edition of JW Broadcasting.
For over 100 years,
Jehovah's Organization has been producing books
to help us teach people Bible truths.
Do you remember when some of these study books were released?
This means everlasting life was released in 1950.
The truth that leads to eternal life in 1968.
You can live forever in Paradise on Earth in 1982
and knowledge that leads to everlasting life in 1995.
What did those titles have in common?
They show that it's possible for a person
to learn what Jehovah requires to live forever.
And that's why we keep searching for people
who are rightly disposed for everlasting life
and who are willing to study the Bible with us.
All those books and several more that we publish since then
have been instrumental in helping people become believers
in our wonderful hope for the future.
In 2021, we added one more book to the list entitled
Enjoy Life Forever and Interactive Bible Course.
This title adds another element that is possible
not only to gain everlasting life,
but also to learn how to enjoy life even now.
The title is taken from Psalm 2226,
which says,
Those seeking Jehovah will praise him,
may you enjoy life forever.
This newest study publication is very different
from all the others that we've produced.
In this broadcast, we want to explain
what went on behind the scenes to produce Enjoy Life Forever.
Under the direction of the governing body,
hundreds of Bethelites around the world
worked very hard to make it possible
for us to have this innovative study tool.
However, they'll be quick to say
that all credit for this goes to Jehovah.
That's why we can say,
just as the prophet Isaiah said in ancient times
of our great God,
O Jehovah,
everything we have done you have accomplished for us.
We know that any success we enjoy
is because of Jehovah's direction and blessing.
And so the theme of this presentation is,
see what Jehovah has done for us.
The faithful discrete slave has always taken
very seriously Jesus command recorded at Matthew 28.19.
Go and make disciples of people of all the nations,
baptizing them.
And that's what our Bible study activity aims to accomplish.
For decades, our method of conducting studies
was to study printed material paragraph by paragraph.
When answering the questions for the paragraph,
some students would often just repeat
what was stated in the book.
However, it was hard to know whether the truth
was really touching their heart.
With enjoy life forever,
we're using a different method of teaching
that generates candid expressions
by the students in their own words.
This is just what the governing body feels is needed
to bring new ones to dedication and baptism
during these urgent last days.
If you've begun conducting Bible studies
with enjoy life forever,
you can appreciate how it's adjusting our Bible study work.
Here's what some long time pioneers have said
after covering just one lesson on their studies.
This was the most beautiful spiritual conversation
I've ever had with a student.
My student revealed things she had never told me before.
I felt as if I was hearing her heart for the first time.
It truly reaches the heart and motivates students to action.
And one brother wrote,
I am so excited about this new Bible course
that I am begging Jehovah to hear my prayers
to be able to conduct progressive studies.
It was early in 2019 when the writing committee
took on the amazing project
to produce a new Bible study tool.
They assembled a team of writers, designers,
and consultants to investigate whether we could improve
the publications that we were then using.
At the very first discussion session,
everyone was encouraged to pray often
about the task at hand,
to pray when thinking about it,
when brainstorming with others and when working on it,
and to respond to the influence of Holy Spirit.
Why pray so much?
Proverbs 16 verse three gives the answer.
Commit to Jehovah whatever you do
and your plans will succeed.
The team was also encouraged to think outside the box,
which means to think outside or beyond
the way things have always been done in the past.
Times have changed, people have changed,
and the way that many prefer to be taught has changed.
These days, they respond better to multimedia
that engages them and holds their attention.
The team has shown a puzzle
that illustrates what it means to think outside the box,
the nine dots puzzle.
The challenge is to connect all nine dots
with just four straight lines.
Here are a few examples of how some will try to solve the puzzle.
Notice that with each attempt, one dot is missed.
The problem is that our mind tends to build a box
around the dots, and that instantly limits
what we can imagine.
The only way to connect all nine dots
with just four straight lines is by going outside the box
and thinking differently than we normally would.
The point was to show that novel, creative thinking
was needed to imagine something
other than the traditional way of studying the Bible with people.
With Jehovah's Spirit guiding, fresh thinking,
it would be interesting to see what innovative ideas
could be thought of on how to teach the truth to Bible students.
And yet it was felt that our brothers and sisters
would need to see some familiar features in the new publication.
That's why the first part of each lesson is designed
similar to the Good News brochure.
It features numbered questions, each followed by a paragraph
that briefly covers fundamental facts about the topic.
Next, the dig deeper section, Reasons on the Topic,
shows how to apply what's learned
and discusses what the topic teaches us about Jehovah.
It includes features found in the Life and Ministry meeting workbook,
bolleted discussion points, scriptures to read, videos to play,
and viewpoint questions to answer.
And like the study articles in the Watch Tower,
the last part of each lesson includes just three review questions.
It was decided that we could cover much less printed material
and let the Bible do the teaching.
That we need to draw out the student's feelings
with well-worded viewpoint questions
and include videos in generous artwork.
We must help the student to see Jehovah as a real person
and to develop a warm relationship with him
and encourage the student to get into a routine
or regular Bible reading prayer and meeting attendance.
Does enjoy life forever provide what we need
to accomplish all of that?
It certainly does.
The scriptures are the focal point of each lesson.
So the student is prompted to find answers in the Bible.
The questions draw out the student's feelings
about what he's learning.
Early in the course, students are helped to appreciate
what Jehovah is like, to feel his love for them
and to see how to draw close to him as their friend.
The beautiful artwork and motivating videos
have real emotional impact.
This project to produce enjoy life forever
require the collaboration of six departments
at World Headquarters.
As directed by the governing body,
the writing department researched,
wrote, and proofread the text for each lesson.
These were then sent to hundreds of brothers
and sisters around the world to test them
on their Bible studies.
The writing department coordinated the work
with other departments to keep the project on schedule.
Translation services helped to simplify the vocabulary
and logic of what was written.
They identified any English text that would be a problem
for translators to render in their local languages.
As of right now, enjoy life forever has been approved
and upward of 700 languages.
The art department designed the book's layout and artwork.
Teams and several branches photograph models
to help the illustrators create the many beautiful scenes
that appear in the book, which contains over 600 images.
Maps programming developed new tools
so that the digital version of the book
in the JW Library app would look similar to the printed edition.
This was the first publication
for which both print and digital formats
were designed simultaneously.
Text processing services composed the text and artwork
for both the print and digital formats,
transcribed the book into English Braille
and instructed the branches on how to produce the book
in their languages.
Audio video services produced several new videos
and excerpts of many existing videos
from the JW.org website.
They also produced unique audio recordings
of the book that include various voices and sounds.
This was truly a collaborative effort,
but there was a major problem that could have stalled this project,
COVID-19.
When World Headquarters and the branches were locked down,
60% of the project still needed to be completed,
and yet the governing body had given it high priority.
The following video will give you some idea
of how the departments worked together
to get their work done despite the challenges they faced
during the pandemic.
Everything about enjoy life forever is different
from any other publication we've produced in the past
and from the start of the project, two things were critical,
good communication and good documentation.
But honestly, time and again, the thing that proved
to be the most important was reliance on Jehovah.
The writing committee's goal was to create a first-class
digital experience that would engage Bible students.
The digital design system had to be completely remodeled
so that enjoy life forever would look uniform,
whether it's viewed in JW Library on JW.org or in print.
Right from the inception of this project,
the brothers looked for inputs of a study material
would be easily available in as many languages as possible.
And for that reason, a team from translation services
worked along with the writers.
A publication of this size would usually take
about two or three years to complete,
but the writing committee was really interested
in getting the enjoy life forever book
out there as soon as possible.
The enjoy life forever book required an intense
amount of collaboration.
Right from the beginning, the writing committee
got all six departments together
so we could work in idly through their production.
Enjoy life forever has many elements.
Over 250 pages of text, 597 images,
121 video boxes, 840 links, and 62 QR codes.
Also, the goal box must allow the student to add text
and we had to build alternate layouts for languages
that have longer text and for languages
that read right to the end.
Our existing toolset didn't have the ability
to style digital publications like we can with print.
We could do black text on a white background with gray boxes.
That was the extent of the functionality
that we had available.
And joy life forever is very interactive for the student.
When producing the audio for this publication,
we endeavor to maintain that feel.
So we added multiple voices, musical cues,
and in some cases, the audio track for the video
was re-edited to teach the point effectively.
When we got to Lesson 32,
we felt that it might be too complicated
to build as a digital experience,
but that's when the collaboration really paid off.
It took every tool that we had,
and basically every trick in order
to build the digital version of that lesson.
As we were working on the prototype,
we would collaborate with the user experience group
to make sure that the look and feel of the digital addition
was the same,
whether it was on a large device or a small device.
The entire chart is a visual aid.
So we wanted to be sure that all of our users,
especially those who are visually impaired,
would be able to understand the teaching point.
This required us to build the chart
so that screen readers could read the text
and that each picture would have a description
for those who needed it.
Early in the concept stage,
we understood that there would be about 200 videos
in this publication requiring thousands of hours of work.
Eight brand new videos of the remaining videos
around 60 would need to be edited.
Just as the eight new videos were entering
the production phase, COVID-19 hit,
effectively halting video production around the world.
This work stoppage continued until each branch
could determine how they could film safely
and still meet the deadline only nine months away.
Due to the pandemic,
photo sessions here at headquarters
were completely stopped for four months.
Now, as things progressed,
we were able to resume photography
only adhering to strict protocols.
For example, we had a family photograph themselves
while being directed by the art department here.
So everything that a Bible study conductor
has been trained to do,
ask all the important questions,
develop love for Jehovah in their Bible students,
show videos, it's all built into the publication.
So would the concept work with actual Bible students?
To find out we did in-house testing,
and then at the same time,
we sent out the lessons around the world
to publishers, pioneers, missionaries, circuit overseers,
and they used the lessons with actual Bible students.
And we tested every lesson of the book this way.
And then the responses that we got back were analyzed
and we made further refinements.
We had hundreds of team meetings
and we felt Jehovah's Holy Spirit equipping all of us
after we opened a meeting with prayer.
When you collaborate, you get a better product.
It's more direct, simpler, and easier to understand.
Also, thinking ahead about potential transition problems
and addressing them,
helped expedite translation in hundreds of languages.
I saw firsthand how Jehovah uses his organization
to give us what we need at the right time,
even with the pandemic.
The results showed me that Jehovah was in control
of the project.
I feel that Jehovah helped us accomplish this job
in a shorter amount of time
and a quality that would have been very difficult
even under normal circumstances.
How amazing is Jehovah?
With the governing body,
wholeheartedly embracing the project
and everyone on the production team
willingly giving their all,
we could see clear evidence of Jehovah's backing.
Now that we've seen what Jehovah has wonderfully done for us,
what must we do for him?
Remember Jesus commanded Matthew 28, 19 and 20
applies to all Christians.
Regarding that command,
note what the article keep busy during the last
of the last day's states in the October 2019 issue
of the watchtower.
As we conduct Bible studies,
we have to try our best to make disciples,
teaching them to observe all the things Jesus has commanded.
We need to help people understand how important it is
for them to take their stand for Jehovah and his kingdom.
This means trying to motivate people
to make the truth their own by applying what they learn,
dedicating their life to Jehovah and getting baptized.
Only then will they survive Jehovah's Day.
In most parts of the earth,
people are not waiting in line for Bible studies.
So we have to be proactive trying our best
to find people with whom we can start
and conduct progressive studies,
using our interactive Bible course.
We want as many right-handed persons as possible
to become Jehovah's willing loyal witnesses.
Here are seven suggestions you can write down now
and try later.
They really work.
The first and most important is pray for a Bible study.
Never underestimate the power of prayer.
So be specific in your prayers and keep praying for studies.
Work in harmony with your prayers
by offering studies at every opportunity,
including to your relatives and acquaintances.
Two, show people the brochure.
Use the intriguing question on the back cover
to peak their interest.
It asks, is it possible to enjoy life forever?
Offer to cover the three introductory lessons
in the brochure.
After that, the person can decide whether to continue
with the rest of the Bible course in the book.
Three, try the direct approach.
Introduce yourself as a Bible teacher
and come right out and ask people
whether they would like to learn more about the Bible.
Explain that we have a most enjoyable
and easy interactive Bible course
and that you have openings in your teaching schedule.
Four, ask your studies for referrals.
You can do this while studying the first paragraph
of lesson one, it asks.
Do you think that the Bible can help anyone you know?
If your student mentions a friend, a relative,
a neighbor, or a workmate,
offer to demonstrate the course to that person.
Five, approach meeting attenders.
Don't assume that interested ones
you see at congregation meetings are already studying.
Ask them.
And if they are not currently studying,
offer to get them started.
Six, ask non-witness marriage mates.
When was the last time they were offered a Bible study?
Even if they had declined an offer in the past,
they might be interested now
and they may prefer to study with someone outside their family.
And seven, talk to those who studied before.
Did you study with someone years ago
in one of our other publications
who did not make any progress?
Why not contact them?
Explain that we have a new interactive Bible course
and ask if they'd like to study again.
This may be just what they need now
to act on what they learn.
A key principle that applies to the efforts
we put forth in the Bible study work
is found at Galatians six verse nine, which says,
so let us not give up in doing what is fine
for a new time we will reap if we do not tire out.
So may we never lose our enthusiasm
and making disciples nor relax our efforts.
With Jehovah's rich blessing on our Bible study activity,
use the enjoy life forever.
We'll be able to say thankfully,
oh Jehovah, everything we have done,
you have accomplished for us.
One way we've been trained to become better disciples makers
is through the videos.
Do you remember when we first met Nida and Jabe
during the 2020 Always Rejoice Convention?
That series provided so many valuable lessons
about what it takes to be an effective teacher.
This month we have another new dramatization.
And in this episode, the story has come full circle
with Jade now conducting her first Bible study
using enjoy life forever.
Who, what's your biggest question about life?
Why are people so obsessed with clicking round objects?
Well, there's that, but seriously, anything?
Why do people hate?
If we all go to children, what's the deal?
Good question.
And one of the Bible definitely answers.
But you've a train to catch, so we'll stop there.
But is Tuesday still good?
Suming space time hasn't collapsed into a singularity.
I'm open.
OK.
Cool.
So, on Tuesday, we'll carry on with...
So, how's the study going?
Brilliant. Was it the right for the easy stuff?
So, what I loved about this prophecy
is that it was written like 200 years
before actually happened and every single detail came true.
The men in charge just left the gates open.
I mean, I would have fired anyone that got drunk
and left to see gates open.
Anyway, back to the prophecy.
So, God is love, but he's going to kill billions.
How's that work?
Well, it'll make sense later.
But for now, let's just focus on what I was talking about earlier.
What's so nice about this chapter is that it's talking about prayer.
Well, it's talking about how Jehovah helps us with prayer.
And so, it's really lovely, because we can pray to someone
that's basically all of this is evidence of the last days.
So, what would you say of the signs of the last days?
Wars.
Disasters.
Red people.
Yep.
Anything else?
No.
Okay.
That's fine. We can just, we'll just review it in the next lesson.
That's fine.
Do you want to just wrap it up now then?
Yeah.
Is everything okay?
This will.
I'm going to go.
All right, bye, Gladys.
She just said one word.
I just...
I said I want to do.
Wow, thankfully I've never had a student like that.
Okay, she's really getting a hang of the ceremony.
Is she?
But seriously, I...
I really put myself into the study to try and make it live.
And I get...
Yes.
No.
Maybe.
Or another insufferable off-topic question.
Maybe let's do a bit of research.
And you'd say that.
I'll put the kit along.
Thanks.
Here we go.
October 2020, watch tower.
This box.
Exercise self-control by not talking too much.
I guess I do need help.
But look, let the students see that you're excited
about Bible truths.
But on there?
Make friends in the congregation.
I could or maybe we could do this.
Look for signs that reveal her desire to serve Jehovah.
Who's free on Friday?
Sorry, Jalen, busy.
Oh, yeah, I'd love to.
So, a surprise today.
My usual lecture has been cancelled in favour of a discussion.
And?
Jalen, I'm not really the drum roll type.
Oh, OK.
Hi.
I'm Nita, one of Jalen's remakes.
And you're...
Gladys.
So, let's start with the question you hit me with last time.
Which is, why do we stay neutral when we see injustice?
I take it. You've had your fair share?
Hmm. Me too.
Although, not as bad as my mum and dad
for not telling me.
But how are things ever changed
if we don't do something about it?
Let's see what the Bible has to say.
In Jeremiah chapter 10,
on verse 23, could you read that?
I will know, O Jehovah, that man's way does not belong to him.
It does not belong to man who is walking even to direct his death.
But, if that's true,
then the future of the human race is looking quite bleak.
Does that mean anything bad?
Jade was excited to conduct a study.
But she learned that making disciples
takes more than just enthusiasm.
It also requires patience
and the self-control to talk less and listen more.
Nita helped Jade improve her teaching
by doing a little research
in the October 2020 issue of the Watch Tower,
which featured two study articles
on conducting Bible studies.
Earlier that same year, the January issue
featured another study article entitled,
Go Therefore and Make Disciples.
That article was filled with suggestions
on how to help our students draw closer to Jehovah.
Listen to the impact those suggestions
have had on three regular pioneers
in our next video from the series,
Lessons from the Watch Tower.
Now, goal as teachers is to help the person
to become a disciple of Christ.
I want my student to love Jehovah the same way that I do.
What I most enjoy is conducting Bible studies.
Being able to see a student grow spiritually
is a joy that can't be put into words.
The Watch Tower of January 2020
mentions several things that we need to keep in mind
as we conduct a study.
Studying the article, I saw how many changes
I needed to make when I conduct a Bible study.
It highlighted that besides helping the student
to gain knowledge, it's even more important
that we help them progress to the point
of dedicating their lives to Jehovah
and of course getting baptized.
Even though I read about how we should stop
studying with non-progressive Bible studies,
I didn't feel comfortable doing it
because I was afraid I might make the wrong decision.
Although I was pretty sure that my Bible student
wasn't yet married, that is legally married,
she had never told me this directly.
And I just didn't feel comfortable talking with her about it.
I had a Bible student who always prepared
for and commented well at the study.
I kept inviting her to the meeting,
but she never went to a single one.
And she never attended the memorial.
I saw that she still had ties
with some aspects of her religion.
The article brought out that in the first few weeks,
as soon as the study becomes regular,
it's important to start praying with the student.
It used to take me a long time to start doing that.
The article helped me because it encouraged me
to bring others with me on the study,
and also not to be afraid to bring along those
who were more experienced.
In the article, it was brought out how important it is,
not just for us to pray with our students,
but also to help them to begin saying
their own prayers as well.
After that, when the study became regular,
I prayed before and after each session.
And I encouraged each of them to also begin praying
to Jehovah personally.
So praying became a daily habit for them.
A circuit over a Sears wife went with me on the study,
and she asked my student if she was married.
Yes, I'm married.
What are you legally married?
And then she responded, no.
So that really opened up an opportunity for me
to help the student out with the situation.
The article gave some suggestions
about how we need to pay attention
to the student's spiritual progress.
It really should be consistent.
We studied for a long time, a little over a year,
and that's when I realized that it was time for me
to stop and decide if I should discontinue the study.
Then I put into practice the suggestion
from the Watchtower of January 2020.
I told her, you're really a someone
who appreciates God's word,
and you're always regular with your studies.
But like we just read about,
there's some footage in your life that's missing.
But she responded, but I think it's all in Jehovah's time.
So I said, Jehovah has already invited you personally,
so it's really up to you now.
But she kept saying, well to me,
it'll happen in Jehovah's time.
Unfortunately, it seemed better to discontinue the study
because she showed that she didn't feel
the need to make progress.
This article was a present from Jehovah.
It was like everything that was important came altogether
in just one article.
We're living in urgent times,
so we need to be as efficient as possible.
The spiritual progress a person makes,
which may have taken five years, can take place now.
If you're currently conducting a Bible study,
did you see any points you could put into practice?
Are you starting each study with prayer
and teaching your student how to pray?
Are you regularly inviting others
to join you on the study?
And are you skillfully using questions
to find out what's really on your student's mind?
The art of using questions
is a topic of our next video in the series,
Iron, Sharpen's Iron.
Hola.
Hi, I'm Armando.
Welcome to Iron, Sharpen's Iron.
We've all been there.
We're out in the ministry,
trying to start conversations with people.
But for many of us, it's not that easy.
Just the idea of talking to a stranger
can be intimidating.
Personally, I'm not someone who finds it easy
to just walk up to a stranger and start a conversation.
But with some effort and time,
I've learned a few methods
that have helped me to overcome my fears.
Today, we're going to concentrate on just one of them,
using questions to start and maintain a conversation.
And perhaps, by the time we're done,
you'll realize like I have
that it's not as difficult as it seems.
Hi there.
Well, we're asking our neighbors a question
and we'd like to know your opinion.
Have you ever asked yourself
what we need to do to have a happy family?
No, I'm not married.
Oh, okay.
Well, we have this brochure that talks about.
Okay, three things.
First, the brother was nervous.
When we're nervous,
we make the person we're speaking with nervous too.
Of course, it's difficult not to be nervous,
but if we concentrate too much
on how we feel,
we can forget that what we want to do
is simply start a conversation.
There's no pressure.
Just keep it casual.
Second, yes, the brother did ask a question,
but the question was irrelevant to the householder.
It's usually better to ask something
that will encourage the person
to participate in the conversation,
but will also help us to discern what interests them.
Third, one of the biggest fears we have is
what if my question doesn't connect with them?
This can throw us off.
We feel like we have nowhere to go.
It would have been better to have a flexible approach
that would allow us to react according to what the person says.
Let's try it again, but this time,
let's approach the situation a little differently.
In the first few pages of our Bible,
there are 20 questions that we can use in the ministry.
Why not start familiarizing ourselves with them?
We can choose one or two subjects that we like
so that we will be ready when an opportunity arises.
Let's see how our brother does this
in the next demonstration.
Hi there, we're asking our neighbors a question
and we'd love to know your opinion.
What would you say is something that causes you
a lot of stress?
Personally, I worry a lot about money
and paying all my bills.
Yeah, I think that's the case for many of us.
Did you know that the Bible explains something
that can help us specifically with that anxiety?
Really?
In the front of my Bible, there are 20 questions
that many of us ask and that the Bible answers.
Notice question 16, how can you cope with anxiety?
Notice what this scripture says in Proverbs 21-5,
the plans of the diligent.
Much better, right?
Did you notice that when the person answered,
the brother simply opened his Bible to the questions
and found a scripture that allowed him
to continue the conversation?
And he didn't try to hide what he was doing.
He showed the person the tool he was using.
He felt confident that however the person responded,
he would be able to find a useful scripture
that would keep the conversation moving.
So that went pretty well.
But maybe you're thinking it almost never happens
like that for me.
Perhaps in our case, it's more like this.
Hi there, we're asking our neighbors a question
and we'd love to know your opinion.
What would you say is something that causes you
a lot of stress?
People coming to my door and asking me questions.
I understand.
I'm not a fan of that myself,
but have you ever wondered why we do this?
Now at this point, the householder may shut
down the conversation completely.
And that's fine.
We're not trying to pressure anyone into talking.
But that second question that the publisher asks.
And the fact that he was calm, that he was relaxed
and that he was not taking himself too seriously,
all of that can open the door for the conversation to continue.
To sum up, remember, first, be calm and relaxed.
We're just trying to start a conversation.
Smile, be friendly.
Second, ask a question that brings a person
into the conversation and allows us
to discover what interests them.
And third, don't be nervous
about where the conversation could lead.
With our 20 questions for the ministry,
we can be sure that we'll find an appropriate text
that will keep the conversation directed
towards spiritual matters.
This is one of the methods that has helped me
and I hope that it can help you too.
As you see for yourself how ironed sharpened iron.
Do you sometimes feel like brother Perez
in the fine that it isn't so easy to walk up to a stranger
and start a conversation?
Using the questions in the front of our Bible
may be just what you need to help get a conversation going.
Of course, making disciples takes more than technical
teaching skill.
First and foremost, we have to love people
regardless of their race, background, or lifestyle.
Jehovah is impartial and we have to be the same way
as we search out deserving ones.
That was the topic of a recent morning worship
by brother William Turner.
His talk highlights the many ways we need to imitate
Jehovah's impartiality, not just in our ministry,
but at all times.
Well, today's text comments mention the effect
that prejudice had on Jesus' disciples.
And as we think about that today
and how we are part of an organization
that is much more diverse than in the first century,
it raises the question, does prejudice still
have an impact on God's people today?
We're very thankful that we love and serve a God
who does not tolerate prejudice.
The Bible states that quite plainly,
turn with me pleased to the book of Acts.
And we note the words of the Apostle Peter in Acts chapter 10,
in verse 34, it says that this Peter began to speak
and he said, now I truly understand
that God is not partial, but in every nation,
the man who fears him and does what is right
is acceptable to him.
Now, if you look at the study note,
it mentions that the Greek phrase for is not partial.
Literally means is not one who takes faces.
And that perfectly describes Jehovah, doesn't it?
He does not favor one face, one individual over another
because of their race, nationality, social standing
or any other external factors.
And that's how you and I strive to be as well.
However, we must acknowledge that it is a challenge
to be impartial, largely because in today's world,
we are surrounded by prejudice.
So to answer that question, does prejudice have an impact
on God's people today?
Indeed it does.
We may be victims of it, or we ourselves might hold some prejudice.
Interestingly, the Watchtower back in 2013 made this comment.
It said, if we are honest with ourselves,
we have to admit that deep down,
we all harbor varying degrees of prejudice
in one form or another.
So if this is something that is a human tendency
and we're all plagued with it, at least to some degree,
then how do we overcome it?
Well, that might be helpful to start with the word itself.
As Sister Lighthizer mentioned,
the dictionary defines prejudice
as a preconceived opinion that is not based on reason
or actual experience, a preconceived opinion.
That has to do with how we think and how we feel,
thoughts that likely have been shaped
by our personal experiences, our upbringing,
and our environment.
And maybe when we think of prejudice, perhaps our minds go to
where we focus on racial prejudice, hatred,
or animosity towards someone.
We talked a little bit about that last week.
But the Watchtower also mentioned that prejudice
can also be formed against another person
because of their weight, gender, language, social status,
religion, or virtually any perceived difference.
So if prejudice starts with our personality,
our personal preconceived opinions,
then the way to overcome it has to start
by elevating our minds to God's way of thinking.
Again, if we go back to the Bible,
this time to 1 Samuel chapter 16.
Notice how Jehovah brings this to light.
1 Samuel chapter 16,
and let's recall what happens when Samuel goes
to the house of Jesse to appoint one of his sons as King.
Verse 6, it says,
as they came in and he saw a light up, he said,
surely, here before Jehovah stands, is anointed one.
But Jehovah said to Samuel,
do not pay attention to his appearance
and how tall he is before I have rejected him.
Now if we stop there a moment, did you notice what Samuel did?
In this particular instance, he was as that Greek phrase
to note it, a taker of faces, wasn't he?
He looked at Elias, he saw how tall,
how handsome he looked, surely this must be Jehovah's choice.
But note how the verse continues, note to teaching point,
for the way man sees is not the way God sees,
because mere man sees what appears to the eyes,
but Jehovah sees into the heart.
That's what matters to Jehovah.
What's in our heart?
What we are on the inside?
And he's looking for those qualities in each of us
that reflect his impartiality.
Now how has this have benefited to us
since you and I cannot read hearts?
Well, let's go back to the study note.
The rest of the study note for Acts 1034 gives us the answer,
because it says imitating God's impartiality means
not making surface judgments,
but paying attention to the character and quality of others.
Now perhaps one way we can illustrate this
is with the example of a geode.
Now you look at this picture on its outside surface,
a geode looks pretty ordinary and nondescript,
no different than any big rock or stone you'd find outside.
But if you break it open, all quite a different story.
Now when you look inside,
you see these beautiful sparkling crystals of varying colors
that are just quite beautiful and really radiant to the eye.
Well, what's our point?
When we make surface judgments
or preconceived opinions about our brothers,
often aren't we looking at them
like the outside of that geode?
All we see is just the external surface.
It isn't so true, perhaps if someone is shy, quiet, or reserved,
it's always in a label them, isn't it?
We size them up and we quickly come to the conclusion now,
you know what, that's not much there.
They really don't have much to offer.
Or it could be that the person is very talkative, loud, extroverted.
Same thing.
We label them for an opinion.
Could it be in those particular instances
that we have become a takeer of faces?
We've made a judgment purely based on personal opinion
or what we feel is acceptable.
But to imitate Jehovah's way of thinking,
we have to go beyond the surface.
We have to focus on the character and the qualities of our brothers.
And with some people, that may take time.
You know what the geode, one expert stated,
there are many different ways to open a geode.
But no matter how you do it, the key is patience, patience, patience.
And in the intro, this is the same with our brothers.
It takes time and patience to get to know them.
Time and patience to understand the way that they think
to show personal interest by asking questions
to work with them in the ministry
and to consider their suggestions.
But when we do, what will reward it?
We began to see the crystals.
We began to see their inner beauty inside.
We discover true depth in our brothers and sisters.
And hopefully they do in us as well.
Now going back to Jesus' disciples,
while the Bible candidly details a number of accounts
showing their human traits and their prejudicial feelings at times,
it also highlights how they overcame those feelings.
Just look at how much we read and meditate on the Christian Greek scriptures.
And how much those verses and books emphasize love,
opening our hearts, loving our brothers,
getting along with one another and widening out.
The disciples did not allow any deep-rooted feelings
or things from their upbringing or their environment to control them.
And you and I can be the same.
But it all starts with an honest self-examination.
Can I identify any traces of prejudice within me?
And if we can, well, it all starts with our thinking.
Elevating our thinking to Jehovah's way of thinking.
Let's avoid surface judgments, being a taker of faces.
Let's take the time to get to know our brothers
and appreciate their character and qualities, their inner beauty.
Jesus told his disciples at Matthew chapter 23 verse 8,
all of you are brothers.
And what made them brothers?
Matthew chapter 12 verse 50,
Jesus said, for whoever does the will of my father,
that one is my brother and sister and mother.
It's a nice reminder, isn't it?
We are all part of a large spiritual family,
united by our faith and love for God.
And if we see each other that way,
that will help us to remain humble
and recognize that we have no reason to elevate ourselves above others.
Instead, we're going to be filled with so much love and appreciation
to be part of this organization as we imitate
our impartial God and Father, Jehovah.
With prejudice and discrimination so rampant in the world around us,
those reminders couldn't be more timely.
We've been talking a lot during this broadcast about helping our students become disciples.
For those of you who are parents,
your most precious students are, of course, your own children.
As teachers, we have to help them prepare
for the pressures they'll face in school.
And those pressures are more intense now than ever,
especially when it comes to sexual immorality.
In this episode of My Teen Life,
we'll hear from two young people who successfully resisted the temptations to have sex.
How do they do it?
Well, every day in high school,
my classmates would talk about sex.
They would just talk about their boyfriends and girlfriends,
what they did with them over the weekend of what they're going to do.
They, of course, knew that I was one of Jehovah's Witnesses
and that I wouldn't engage in premarital sex,
but that did not stop them from pushing.
Guys would invade my personal space.
Sometimes they would even try to grab or touch me.
One day, a girl in class,
she asked me to touch her inappropriately.
Of course, I rejected her,
but she even started resorted to calling me names.
She called me Lane,
and she said that I must be gay.
It seemed to be a game to them
to try to break me and try to get me to do things with them,
but the fact that I wouldn't give in,
they thought it was fun or funny.
It got to the point where this became very physical.
I had two classmates behind me that were pushing me.
One class made on each side of me grabbing my arms
and pushing me, trying to make me touch her.
And I knew that it was time to get out of there.
Being one of Jehovah's Witnesses,
I was already very different in school.
I was also very shy.
So at times, I wanted to fit in with the crowds
so I wouldn't have that attention on me.
But I knew that this would displease Jehovah
if I went with the crowd
and did what the other kids were doing.
Well, I did say I saw a quick side
and prayed to Jehovah.
I said, Jehovah, just please help.
I immediately in my mind thought of Joseph.
He was able to free himself from Potiphar's wife,
but he was able to get away
because of his resolve to please Jehovah.
And that's exactly what I knew I needed to do.
And I did just that.
I ran right out of the classroom.
Personal study was very important.
And this made Jehovah really real to me.
The more real he was to me,
the more I didn't want to displease him and hurt him.
Having that relationship with him
and having that trust in him
really helped me get through those situations
of wanting to fit in and go with the crowd.
Rejecting that girl was not easy.
But I did know that it was the right thing to do.
Shortly before this incident,
my grandmother actually prepared me.
She would prepare watchtower articles for me.
That talked about how to deal with temptation.
Although those talks with her were super duper awkward.
If I'm being honest,
they really helped me to stay spiritually strong
and to resist the temptation.
My parents always told me to use far-sighted wisdom.
Think about how that action would affect me in the future.
Effect my relationship with Jehovah
with my friends and my family.
That definitely went through my head a lot during that time.
All you need to do is trust in Jehovah
because if you trust in him,
then everything is going to be okay.
The publication that really helped me the most
was The Young People Ask Book Volume 2,
Chapter 5, Why Stay A Version.
This book was really a lifesaver for me.
Reading about how some of my peers
all around the world are dealing with the exact same temptation
really gave me a sense of comfort
and helped me to feel that I was not alone.
I'm really grateful to Jehovah
and the organization for the love that they show
to us young ones to help us.
You'll not alone and to help us push through
these difficult situations.
The Young People Ask Book Volume 2, Chapter 14.
How can I protect myself at school?
It really encouraged me in school to be firm
and to stand my ground to make Jehovah happy.
Well, I'm so thankful to Jehovah
for recalling scriptures like 1 Corinthians, Chapter 6, Verse 18
which says flee from sexual immorality.
And I'm happy to say that I was able to do just that.
But really, what makes me the happiest
is knowing that I made Jehovah happy
and there is no greater feeling than that.
We know that many of you young ones
are just like Cameron and Cory
and we're so proud of you
for the courageous stand you take every day.
We know it isn't easy.
But remember, when you take that stand
you're making Jehovah's Heart Glant.
It takes courage to be different.
For many of our brothers and sisters
at courage is being tested in a special way.
They're preaching and making disciples
in lands where the work is restricted or under ban.
How do they muster the courage to keep
on preaching despite opposition?
That's the theme of this month's new music video.
I woke up this morning and dressed for the day.
I prayed to Jehovah and went on
while I was told not to preach,
but I cannot bear.
God is my ruler, rather than man.
They're like the breeze blowing
out in the field of your peace.
I cried here.
I know Jehovah's with me.
So why should I feel?
As I get back home and think about this day
that men on the bench had so much to say.
So I pray that I'll see him again this soon.
I know it feel better if he had the truth.
Feel peace.
Brad, I know Jehovah's with me.
So why should I feel?
I know Jehovah's with me.
Let's burn these words I will speak.
I'll do my part.
I'll spread his name the best that I can.
And I will keep going right down to the end.
Knowing my brothers are fighting this fight.
I'll strengthen my faith.
Keep it alive.
Trust in Jehovah's praise as I sing.
Knowing he's in woe to sleep tonight.
I think Jehovah in turn out.
But I know that I still don't know.
I could breathe.
I know Jehovah's with me.
So why should I feel?
Like the young brother portrayed in our video,
we can gain confidence knowing that when we're in the ministry,
Jehovah is with us every step of the way.
Our program has shown us the many ways Jehovah has equipped us
to make disciples, giving us the best tools and the best training.
Being a disciple maker also means being courageous
when it comes to taking a stand for our moral principles.
And preaching even when opposed.
We know Jehovah will bless all your hard work
as you go on making disciples.
One part of the world where the disciple making work has been thriving
for well over 100 years is Australia,
our destination in this month's video postcard.
Australia is a vast island continent,
four times larger than the largest island of the world.
Situated between the Indian and Pacific oceans,
Australia is a land of dramatic contrast.
It's the second driest continent after Antarctica
with vast deserts.
Yet some of its mountain ranges receive enough snow
to have earned the name the Australian Elps.
Off the coast of Queensland in the northeast,
you'll find the Great Barrier Reef,
which is the largest coral reef system on Earth.
Whether you're traveling in Australia's dusty outback
or along the coast,
you'll likely see many kangaroos.
That's not surprising because there are many more kangaroos
in Australia than there are people.
Kangaroos are native to Australia
as are many other animals including the koala,
wombat,
possum,
emu,
and the unique duck-billed platypus.
Seeds of truth reached Australia as far back as 1884.
The Australia branch was established in 1904,
making it one of the oldest branches in the world.
Today it's called the Australasia branch
and oversees the preaching not just in Australia and New Zealand,
but in many islands of the South Pacific.
In the early days,
brothers covered the vast Australian territory
traveling by bicycle,
truck,
cart,
and even camel.
Today, more than 70,400 publishers
and 7,500 pioneers
are preaching in almost 40 different languages.
A special effort is made to reach Australia's native Aboriginal people.
To assist those hungry for the truth,
literature has been translated into some of the indigenous languages.
Our Australian brothers and sisters
have also found success preaching on passenger trains
and at railway stations.
This is the Broken Hill Station,
a stop on the Indian Pacific route,
which runs more than 4,300 kilometers
or about 2,700 miles from Sydney to Perth.
Many have learned the truth as a result of the preaching
along this train line.
Most of Australia's nearly 26 million inhabitants
live in cities and towns not far from the coast.
One of those towns is Naurah,
home of the Naurah West congregation.
With a little help from Zoom,
the 80 brothers and sisters of the Naurah West congregation
send you their warmest love.
From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.